# Pattern of Life Fingerprinting For Mobile Devices Using Probe Request Content

A research project undertaken by Alistair Robinson in association with the WMG Cyber Security Centre

## Abstract

Pattern of Life (PoL) analysis is a growing research area of cyber security. This project investigates a novel application of PoL models in the fingerprinting of mobile devices by performing predictive analysis on SSID data contained within a device’s probe request broadcasts. A Fuzzy Cognitive Map (FCM) is used to perform PoL analysis on SSID data by measuring the likelihood that a user will connect to one wireless access point (AP) given the APs previously saved by their device. A classifier using this model was tested in an experiment on the University dataset provided in the Sapienza Probe Request collection, collected by Barbera et al., 2013. The results collected from this experiment (taken from 500 devices) demonstrated that the system was capable of correctly classifying deviceswith an overall statistical accuracy of up to 99.99% (TPR = 94.8%, TNR = 100%, FPR = 0%, FNR = 5.2%) for a peak threshold value τ_max= 0.9815 when the lower bound of fingerprint sizes was set at α = 6. The classifier alsoachieved an AUC value of 0.98751 for its ROC curve. These results were verified by repeating the experiment on smaller datasets TheMall and Vatican1 with consistent result accuracy and ROC curves and by performing the experiment on the University dataset with varying anomaly thresholds α with consistently strong accuracy values (ACC ≥ 0.9998, AUC ≥ 0.9817) for α ≥ 3. These results strongly suggest that this implementation of PoL analysis is an accurate fingerprinting method for mobile devices, even with partial data, and may indicate that three SSIDs is the minimum necessary to fingerprint a mobile device with high accuracy. Applications for this method include areas such as authentication, forensics and urban science. Further work is identified, including the uses of a PoL model to identify social groups within network data as an extension to the fingerprinting approach presented by Barbera et al., 2013.
